---
title: "Podcast: Season 1 Episode 3"
author: Peter Witham
featuredImage:
date: "2019-07-31T00:43:00"
tags: ["Podcast"]
description: All the changes coming to the App Store and TestFlight.
---

# App Store Connect and TestFlight get an overhaul

<iframe src="https://anchor.fm/compileswift/embed/episodes/App-Store-Connect--TestFlight-and-App-Store-Changes-e4bdtf"
height="102" width="400" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

In this episode we take a look at the changes announced for App Store Connect, TestFlight and the App Store.

It might not sound exciting, but since there is where most of our work ends up, you should pay attention.

##[Subscribe in your favorite player](https://pw.d.pr/5TbjRs)

## Show Notes

<details>
<summary>Click to Display</summary>

- Fully supports standalone watchOS applications
- Application Loader has been removed from Xcode 11
- There is a new application called Transporter for macOS that does not need Xcode to be installed.
- Sign in with Apple ID
- Choose your team
- Drag and drop files to Transporter including the IPA file exported from Xcode.
- Errors and issues will be displayed in Transporter for you to fix before delivering the package to App Store Connect.
- You can upload many packages at once if you need to.
- Emails with issues now include the version number in the subject line.
- There is a new Build Activity view in App Store Connect to better track the history of your applications.
- You can also be notified as the progress of your application changes by turning the notification on in the app.
- TestFlight application has now been localized in many more languages.
- TestFlight Feedback is a new feature that enables users to give direct feedback to you via App Store Connect.
- Any time your application crashes Feedback will offer users the ability to send information right there and then.
- You can customize the on-boarding experience delivered from TestFlight Feedback for your application, this appears the first time a user launches your application from TestFlight.
- When a user takes a screenshot of your application downloaded from TestFlight they now get a new “Share Beta Feedback” option to send that screenshot and any annotation and comments directly to App Store Connect.
- The feedback information submitted to App Store Connect can be downloaded and includes device and user information.
- TestFlight Feedback can be disabled in App Store Connect if you no longer want that option available to users. You do not need to release a new version to TestFlight remove it.
- 9 new languages have been supported in the App Store, this brings the total to 37.
- Right to Left languages are now supported in App Store Connect.
- App Analytics now supports macOS including
- Impressions
- Product page views
- App Units shows how many times the app was downloaded
- Sales will show the total purchases including in app purchases
- App Analytics now shows iOS app deletion from devices.
  </details>
