---
title: SwiftUI Multiline Textfield?
author: Peter Witham
featuredImage:
date: "2019-11-21T23:09:00"
tags: ["Journal", "SwiftUI"]
description: Does SwiftUI have a multiline text field or attribute to create one?
---

This week I have been working on a personal macOS application that I use to generate the metadata that appears at the top of markdown files used by Gatsby when generating this very site.

I have a working version that I built with Swift and storyboards before the release of SwiftUI.

I thought it would be a great application to rebuild with SwiftUI to not only learn the new layout language and tools but to also update the application using Catalyst to work on my iPad as well.

Everything was going great until I hit what seemed like a simple problem to solve, a multiline textfield. After doing the Google for a while and reading through some of the usual sites and documentation it became apparent to me that this was going to be more of a problem than I first thought.

As of this post, I still have not found what seems like a simple solution. Either I am missing something really obvious, or there is no multiline textfield yet with SwiftUI?

I need to do more investigation to really find out for sure, but the only answer I have come across so far is to wrap a UITextField for use in SwiftUI. I really am hoping there is a simpler answer.

The work continues to an overlooked obvious control that a lot of applications will need and surely will slow adoption of SwiftUI at this time.

If you know the answer, please feel free to reach out and share it with me on either the [contact form](contact) or [@CompileSwift on Twitter](https://twitter.com/compileswift), thanks.
